Blog post on olympic coder with lm studio (#2757)
huggingface/blog: olympic-coder-lmstudio.md

---
title: "Open R1: How to use a OlympicCoder locally for coding"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/olympic-coder-lmstudio/banner.png
authors:
- user: burtenshaw
- user: reach-vb
- user: lewtun
- user: edbeeching
- user: yagilb
  guest: true
  org: lmstudio-ai
---

# How to use a OlympicCoder locally for coding

> Everyone’s been using Claude and OpenAI as coding assistants for the last few years, but there’s appeal if you look at the developments coming out of open source projects like [Open R1](https://huggingface.co/open-r1). If we look at the evaluation on Live Code Bench below, we can see that the 7B parameter variant outperforms Claude 3.7 Sonnet and GPT-4o. These models are the daily driver of many engineers in applications like Cursor and VSCode.

Reviewer: turbo nit:
```suggestion
Everyone’s been using Claude and OpenAI as coding assistants for the last few years, but there’s appeal if you look at the developments coming out of open source projects like [Open R1](https://huggingface.co/open-r1). If we look at the evaluation on [LiveCodeBench](https://livecodebench.github.io) below, we can see that the 7B parameter variant outperforms Claude 3.7 Sonnet and GPT-4o. These models are the daily driver of many engineers in applications like Cursor and VSCode.
```

![evals](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/olympic-coder-lmstudio/lcb-evals.png)

> Evals are great and all, but I want to get my hands dirty and feel the commits\! This blog post focuses on how you can integrate these models in your IDE now. We will set up OlympicCoder 7B, the smaller of the two OlympicCoder variants, and we’ll use a quantized variant for optimum local inference. Here’s the stack we’re going to use:

Reviewer: I didn't know we have to escape ! in blog posts 🤯

Author: It's a export from google docs thing.

Reviewer: FYI if you draft in Notion, the copy-paste works perfectly to Markdown

* OlympicCoder 7B. The 4bit GGUF version from the [LMStudio Community](https://huggingface.co/lmstudio-community/OlympicCoder-7B-GGUF)  
* LM Studio: A tool that simplifies running AI models  
* Visual Studio Code (VS Code)  
* [Continue](https://www.continue.dev/) a VS Code extension for local models

> It’s important to say that I chose this stack purely for simplicity. You might want to experiment with the larger model and/ or different GGUF files. Or even alternative inference engines like [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp). 

Reviewer: I'd use "we" here if you want to keep all the co-authors:

```suggestion
It’s important to say that we chose this stack purely for simplicity. You might want to experiment with the larger model and/ or different GGUF files. Or even alternative inference engines like [llama.cpp](https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp). 
```

lms load olympiccoder-7b
lms server start
```

# 3\. Connect LM Studio to VS Code

This is the important part. We now need to integrate VScode with the model served by LMStudio.

1. In LM Studio, activate the server on the ‘Developer’ tab. This will expose the endpoints at `http://localhost:1234/v1`.

![lmstudio](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/olympic-coder-lmstudio/lm-studio.png)

2. **Install the VS Code Extension** to connect to our local server. I went for Continue.dev, but there are other options too.  
   * In VSCode, go to the Extensions view (click the square icon on the left sidebar, or press Ctrl+Shift+X / Cmd+Shift+X).  
   * Search for “Continue” and install the extension from “Continue Dev”.  
3. **Configure a New Model** in Continue.dev  
   * Open the Continue tab and in the models dropdown, select ‘add new chat model’.  
   * This will open a json configuration file. You’ll need to specify the model name. I.e. olympiccoder-7b

![continue](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/olympic-coder-lmstudio/continue_dev.png)

# 🚀 You’ve got a local coding assistant\!

> Most of the core AI features in vscode are available via this setup, for example:

Reviewer: Would be cool to have a video / GIF showing the model in action :)

Author: There's a gif above!

* **Code Completion:** Start typing, and the AI will suggest how to finish your code.  
* **Generate Code:** Ask it to write a function or a whole block of code. For example, you could type (in a comment or a chat window, depending on the extension): // Write a function to reverse a string in JavaScript  
* **Explain Code:** Select some code and ask the AI to explain what it does.  
* **Refactor Code:** Ask the AI to make your code cleaner or more efficient.  
* **Write Tests:** Ask the AI to create unit tests for your code.

# 🏋️‍♀️ What’s the vibe of OlympicCoder?

> OlympicCoder is not Claude. It’s optimised on the codeforces-cot dataset which is based on a competitive coding challenge. That means that you should not expect it to be super friendly and explanatory. Instead, roll up your sleeves and expect a no-holds barred competitive coder ready to deal with tough problems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OlympicCoder is not Claude. It’s optimised on the [CodeForces-CoTs](https://huggingface.co/datasets/open-r1/codeforces-cots) dataset which is based on competitive coding challenges. That means that you should not expect it to be super friendly and explanatory. Instead, roll up your sleeves and expect a no-holds barred competitive coder ready to deal with tough problems. 
```
